So why do unit testing?
I like to start with this quote.
I'll read it here.
Every decision we make, be it technology, process, or people, can be viewed as a form of investment.
These investments come with a cost and we trust that they'll pay off.
So if you're already familiar with game development and you're able to get some of the functionality
you have in your mind into the projects and share them with the players who are playing your game,
it may not be quite clear what the value of unit testing is.
Unit testing should be first and foremost thought of as an optional activity that you can add on top
of to your production code.
In one way, your end users never see that functionality, but the idea and the benefits that come from
unit testing, particularly test driven development, we hope will give us a payoff for that investment.
We will have classes and systems that operate more dependably, that are more robust, but that are
less error prone and will allow you to add more features for your users at a more rapid and confident
pace, with unit testing as one of your skills.
Now, in this world of unit testing, there's so many different terms.
Some of the ones that we see on here, I'll just read a couple of them.
Composition and abstraction, referring to the way that your classes and your architectures can fit
together.
Classes and methods just being object oriented programming fundamentals.
Then things like mock and assertion and range act and assert as well.
These are things that are refer specifically to unit testing.
We're going to be covering kind of in an informal way, all of the terms that we see here.
We'll probably be covering them now in the latter.
Professional development.
When you start out as a game developer inside unity, learning the unity tool, learning the theory
behind unity and of course the C-sharp coding, you notice that you're graduating.
The concepts are getting more and more complex as you go through these different topics.
Things like classes in OOP, which are things you learn early in development.
Later in your career, you'll focus more on getting your projects to be more modular, reusable, adding
testing, which is the core here, and then talking largely about the architecture of your projects.
A sign of a well architected project is one that when you're adding that 101st feature, it doesn't
break everything else you've got.
Now, here we see one possible path of a junior developer moving through a career.
And it's particularly interesting that the skills that we're talking about here are really what moves
you from a beginning developer to a junior to a senior.
It's really these types of practical knowledge that you're adding to your skill set that will help you
get a promotion within your current role, or find new roles and opportunities to contribute in other
teams.
Now, not every team uses unit testing in the programming world, and I think particularly in game development,
you don't find it as often as you do with some other programming platforms and paradigms, but it is
just as important here.
Let's look at why unit testing is important.
I'll read along here.
As your project grows with more scripts, classes, and methods, it becomes difficult for you to ensure
that a change in one part of your code doesn't break something somewhere else.
Automated testing helps you check that your code is functioning as expected.
Testing saves time by finding where and when problems occur as soon as they're introduced in development,
rather than relying on manual testing, or even the more expensive waiting for your end users, your
game players to report a bug, let's talk a little bit about the value of finding your errors early.
Now, many of us as developers think that the game development process is all about adding new features
and feeling like the faster you add them, the more value you offer to your end users.
Now, while that is a fun way to start a project, we all know the results that come from adding features
too fast early in development, especially on top of a code base that is not well designed, well architected
or well tested.
What research in the game development industry shows is something of the 80 over 20 rule that 80% of
development bugs come from just 20% of your features.
Core complexity often sits in a narrow corner of the codebase.
Project, organization, or a lack thereof can cause tremendous reoccurring issues.
You end up fighting those same old fires again and again, because you don't have the design and the
testing to prove that that area is confidently developed.
80% of the dev time is coding maintenance.
Now that is a scary thing to hear, but this is what we see on large code base.
Imagine shipping a game in six months and supporting it for 1 or 2 years more while you're doing bug
fixes and adding new features.
That's an example of a very simple game.
Even in that process, we find that 80% of the time that you spend in a developer is not adding those
new features.
It's narrowing down and finding bugs in old systems and doing refactors as the first six months.
Architecture may not fit the second six months of architecture.
Your project is going to grow and your team is going to learn, so you're going to be making changes
along the way.
No problems there.
These changes are often called refactoring.
Refactoring is making your code more efficient and offering the same value to your end consumers.
Every refactor allows you to have a new starting point to add even new features on top.
So what we see here is that by establishing good practices of doing testing, that's going to help that
code maintenance, it's going to help that 80% where we do spend a lot of our time.
And as I alluded to earlier, let's take a look here that the cost of software bugs increases over time.
Now, this particular slice of research shows that if you're having conversation with a colleague about
a game feature, and one of you points out something that may be a problem, they're fixing it in,
that conversation is super cheap.
Let's call that the one x amount of time and effort very low as you go through and you implement that
project, finding that same bug after you've coded, it is more difficult to find and more difficult
to fix and make sure you fix it.
Well, then once you do your testing, you pass this on to your customers to test and then you ship
it to your end game players.
Imagine a game player finding that same issue.
They're going to have to be disappointed about it.
Perhaps that affects negatively how they think of the game.
They may you may even lose them as a game player.
But if they're a vocal person and you have a good channel for customer support and they send that in,
it goes into your bug ticketing system, eventually gets assigned, eventually gets fixed, maybe it
is or isn't fixed properly, and then you ship that update out to end users, hoping that that user's
needs have been addressed.
It's much more expensive.
At the end.
We'll see that unit testing allows for us to, first of all, design our software better.
Second of all, put tests into your project so that these automated tests will find that bug earlier.
Perhaps in the integration stage, as we're seeing here, it's not as good as fixing it in that first
conversation, but it's a much better than waiting for the project to be released.
So some of the best practices that are highlighted here are creating maintainable code, increasing
the automation and testing you have in your code, catching your bugs early and often, and fixing those
bugs before you add new features.